Certification content: first draft (#49)
project-chip/matter-handbook: content/Certification/certifying-a-product/development.md

+++
title = "Development"
chapter = false
weight = 6
+++

![](../imgs/development.png)

The process of developing a Matter product is highly dependent on the device
being developed, the platform being used, and the policies of the company doing the development. There
is no single "best" way to integrate Matter into a product. This guide aims to
address the common considerations for Matter product development.

- Information on the Connectivity Standards Alliance (CSA) open source SDK is available at the
[Matter SDK documentation site](https://project-chip.github.io/connectedhomeip-doc/index.html).

- Integration of the SDK on specific platforms is covered by the
[Platform guides](https://project-chip.github.io/connectedhomeip-doc/platforms/index.html).

## Matter-specific product considerations

> The documentation in this section aims to give a brief overview of some of the

Reviewer: For readability in the source, can you add a blank line after each header in these markdown pages?  Some have it and some don't.

### Device Attestation Certificates and Certification Authorities

Device attestation certificates are used to attest devices (or commissionable apps,
in the case of Matter Casting) as being authentic
devices that are manufactured by the stated vendor and certified as a Matter
device. The full attestation procedure and certificate set is described in the
Handbook's
[Device Attestation](https://handbook.buildwithmatter.com/howitworks/attestation/)
section. The attestation certificate chain matches the Vendor and Product IDs
declared on the device and in the certification declaration.

The device attestation chain consists of the Device Attestation Certificate
(DAC), which is signed by the Product Attestation Intermediate (PAI), which is
signed by the Product Attestation Authority (PAA).

The DAC and PAI are provided by the product being commissioned (device, app, etc), and the PAA is distributed in the
DCL and does not appear on the product.

As a part of the attestation chain, each attesting product needs to be provisioned with:

-   Device attestation private key
    -   Private, stored in the secure subsystem where possible

>     -   See Spec section 6.3.2 Firmware information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    -   See section 6.3.2 Firmware information of the Matter specification
```

recommended. The rules for QR and manual code inclusions are covered in section
5.7.6 and section 13.6 of the specification.

Information about on-package badging and QR and manual codes are documented in the
[Brand Guidelines](https://csa-iot.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/Matter_Guideline_v15b_26102022_Public-Use.pdf).

### In-field updates to Matter

If a product that has already been released with non-Matter firmware wishes to update
to include Matter functionality, the Matter firmware and supporting materials can be
installed on the in-field devices using their already available, non-Matter update
mechanism. Devices can continue to use their original update mechanism for future
Matter updates, or may opt to use the Matter-specified Over-the-Air (Matter OTA)
update mechanism.

In-field update considerations are
discussed in section 5.8 of the specification. It is important to note that
in-field products are subject to the same per-unit requirements as Out-of-Box
Matter products. It is therefore important to consider not only how to distribute
the firmware but also either how to display the on-boarding material or perform a

> background commissioning. It is also necessary to to provision the per-unit materials

Reviewer: ```suggestion
background commissioning. It is also necessary to provision the per-unit materials
```
